	What can you call someone who plays many musical instruments, composes, arranges, directs, sings and has been a skilled songwriter for years? Generic labels like impresario, maestro, multi-talented or Renaissance man don’t seem to encompass the extraordinary gift of Michael Sterling’s musicianship.
	So what you do when faced with this seeming inability to describe such a wondrous gift is delve deeper into who this artist is –knowing that if you experience his music through his perception – the words you seek will finally come.
	Understanding Michael’s music requires you to know a bit of his background. A Miami native, his musical career started in his teens when he played bass for popular Latino recording artist Ray Fernandez. Eager to branch out into another direction, Michael and two childhood friends formed the group Silver Platinum, who quickly scored a hit on the R&B charts with their hit “Dance”.
	Michael then went on to play Lead guitar and sing and record as a member of the Grammy Award winning reggae band Inner Circle. Inner Circle is most known for their hit “Bad Boys” which is used as the theme song for the Bad Boys film franchise that stars Will Smith and Martin Lawrence. It is also used as the theme song for hit television show COPS.
	After touring the world with Inner Circle, Michael returned to Miami. While developing his career as a solo artist, Michael also spent time as an audio engineer and producer at Luke Records, where he produced hits for local artists 2 Live Crew, MC Shy D, JT Money and others. He also served as musical director for BMG recording artist Blu Cantrell.
	While assisting in the development of other artists’ careers, Michael continued to strengthen as a songwriter, and soon found many of his original compositions being covered by some of the hottest artists out today. Michael's song "Always" Has been recorded by "TRINA" feat. Monica his song “Holiday” served as inspiration for the derivative Trick Daddy single “Thug Holiday”, which is also the title track of Trick’s Platinum album.
	Then Lil' Jon and the East Side Boys, Usher and Ludacris covered his song “ Lovers and Friends” for their smash 2005 single of the same name. The song was released on the quadruple platinum album “Crunk Juice” and was the winner of two BMI Billboard awards including ‘Hip Hop Song of the Year’. In 2006, his song “Bedroom Boom” was covered by The Ying Yang Twins featuring Avant on the platinum Ying Yang CD “U.S.A”.
	Michael continues to use his formidable talents as a music industry heavyweight. His charismatic and unique voice has been featured in performances on the Today Show and the Tonight Show with Jay Leno.
	It is no surprise that this industry leader has expanded his scope of entertainment interest to motion pictures. MSMG, The Michael Sterling Music Group in association with Infinity Productions, will soon release the first of many movies entitled: ‘ALMOST RELATED’.
	Shot primarily on location in Thailand, the movie score features just a few of the crème de la crème of MSMG’s impressive artist roster including, ‘Michael Sterling’ FAZE,‘Supa’ and ‘Swindle’. Other talented artists that complete the MSMG roster are: ‘Strawberri Taylor’ and ‘Leah McCrae’.
	Michael has just completed his new two volume Album, “Eyes Around My Heart”. The CD, as well as the single “Complicated”, is a musical reminder of what true artistry is all about. The smooth pop and R&B songs featured on the CD have already garnered rave reviews and fans worldwide are eagerly anticipating its release.
	And so we return to the question of what do you call a man whose gifts run the gamut from music to film to label executive and whose artistry as a musician covers the genres of pop, reggae, hip hop and R&B? You call him what he is. A virtuoso – a musical genius whose career will only continue to inspire and awe all those who have the unique privilege of consuming his music.