	Taalib Hassan Johnson (born September 16, 1977), better known by his stage name Musiq Soulchild (or simply Musiq; pronounced "music") is an American singer-songwriter. His music blends R&B, funk, blues, jazz, and gospel influences fused with hip hop.
	He signed with Def Soul to release his debut studio album, Aijuswanaseing (2000). It moderately entered the Billboard 200, while his second album, Juslisen (2002), peaked atop the chart and spawned the single "Halfcrazy", his highest entry—at number 16—on the Billboard Hot 100. He released third album, Soulstar (2003), before parting ways with the label in favor of Atlantic Records. The label released his fourth album, Luvanmusiq (2007), which peaked atop the Billboard 200 once more.
	Musiq was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and raised in a strict Muslim household. During his teenage years he built a reputation for being musically gifted, beat boxing for MCs freestyling on the open mic circuit, scatting at jazz clubs, or just performing an a cappella for strangers on the streets, which is where he got the name "Musiq" and later added "Soulchild." He cites as his inspirations such icons as Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder, and Donny Hathaway. He dropped out of high school to pursue a career in music.
	In 1998, Musiq Soulchild signed with Def Soul Records, the contemporary R&B division of Universal Music's Def Jam Recordings. He later released his debut album, Aijuswanaseing, in late 2000. Its lead single was "Just Friends (Sunny)". His second single "Love" spent 22 weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 charts.
	Musiq's second album, 2002's Juslisen, debuted at number one on both the Billboard 200 and R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, reaching platinum-sales status. The singles were "Halfcrazy" and "Dontchange", which were top ten hits.
	In 2003, Musiq released his third album, Soulstar, which went gold. It included the singles "Forthenight" and "Whoknows".
	Musiq took a four-year break and changed his management to Solqi Management. In 2006, media outlets circulated that Musiq was involved in a de facto record label trade, transitioning from Def Soul's master label Def Jam Recordings to Atlantic Records, and sending rapper Fabolous from Atlantic to Def Jam.
	In March 2007, Musiq's released his fourth album Luvanmusiq. Its singles were "B.U.D.D.Y.", an uptempo track, "Teachme", and "Makeyouhappy."
	His fifth album OnMyRadio was released on December 2, 2008. The lead single "Radio" was a complete contrast to the usual smooth neo soul Musiq fans were accustomed to. The following singles were the duet "IfULeave" featuring Mary J. Blige, and the ballad "SoBeautiful". The latter marked the first collaboration between Musiq and producer JR Hutson, after Hutson had spent "about eight months" trying to get Musiq to come by his studio. According to Hutson, the two planned to work together again.
	In May 2010, he changed management to Victor Grieg.
	His last album for Atlantic MusiqInTheMagiq was released on May 3, 2011, available on CDs and also as a digital download. The first single was "Anything" featuring Swizz Beatz, followed by "Yes".
	In September 2013, Musiq released a duet album with Syleena Johnson, titled 9ine. This album was a compilation of nine reggae songs recorded in nine days on the independent Shanachie label.
	Also in September 2013, Musiq announced his departure from Atlantic Records and becoming an independent artist. He revealed he is now signed to record producer Warryn Campbell's label My Block Records. Musiq previously worked with Campbell on his first two albums on Atlantic – 2007's Luvanmusiq and 2008's OnMyRadio.
	He released an EP titled The Husel through DatPiff on July 30, 2014.
	In April 2016, he released his first independent solo album through My Block/ E1 Music, Life on Earth. The lead single is "I Do". Shortly after, he moved to a new label, with eOne/SoulStar Music Company.
	In 2017, he released two new singles "Simple Things" and "Start Over" set for a new album titled Feel the Real due on September 15, 2017. He premiered music videos for the tracks in April 2017.
	Musiq Soulchild has featured on
	Soulchild has also appeared on the soundtrack to Tyler Perry's February 2007 movie Daddy's Little Girls.
	He also lent a song from his March 2007 album Luvanmusiq to the soundtrack for Perry's later movie Why Did I Get Married?, released October 2007.
	He then recorded a remake of Arrested Development's song "People Everyday" with British rapper and singer Estelle for the soundtrack to Tyler Perry's March 2008 Meet the Browns titled "People Everyday (Metamorphosis Mix)".
	Musiq guest starred as himself in the UPN sitcom Half and Half in May 2004 and The CW comedy The Game in October 2007.
	On June 25, 2012, Musiq released a book on love and relationships, titled 143 – Love According To Musiq.
	When Musiq was a young child, he developed a lazy eye from an accident that occurred while being fed by his uncle.
	In 2009, he had a son with 702 singer Kameelah Williams. He also has a daughter named Satori, born in 2017, with Ashley "Tiyumba" Wright. Musiq resides in Atlanta, Georgia.
	Soulchild has two platinum as well as two gold albums altogether.
	He has also received awards from BET and the ASCAP among others.
	Soulchild has also received 13 Grammy nominations, including three for his 2007 album Luvanmusiq.