	Body was a R&B vocal ensemble who had some soul chart success in the late 80's around the time when vocal group popularity was cresting. Like Jade, SWV and En Vogue, around the same time, the ladies of the group sang in "three-part" harmony. The group consisted of three sisters, whose last name is Body – their first names were Francina, Letitia and Peggy.
The three women are the youngest of 12 siblings in their family. In 1979, Letitia and Francina provided vocals on jazz singer Betty Lou Landreth’s album, “Betty Lou”. They were discovered by Stevie Wonder and his brother, Calvin Hardaway, and eventually signed a record deal with MCA Records.
	In 1987, Body released their self-titled debut studio album. The two singles released from the album: “Middle Of the Night” and “Possession” failed to make any impact on the music charts at all.
	During that same year, the Body sisters were featured on jazz musician George Howard’s album, “A Nice Place to Be” on the track, “Sweetest Taboo”. Letitia provided vocals on albums by Eddie Murphy and Tamika Patton. In 1990, they released their sophomore album, “Easy To Love” which also didn’t make any album charts at all. The lead single from the album, a cover version of The Isley Brothers’ 1977 song, “Footsteps in the Dark” peaked at #15 on Billboard’s Hot Black Singles chart, staying on the chart for 17 weeks. The follow-up single, “Touch Me Up” peaked at #12 on Billboard’s Hot Black Singles chart, staying on the chart for 16 weeks. The last single released from the album, “Body” didn’t chart.
	In 1991, the Body sisters were featured on singer Keisha Jackson’s album, “Keisha” on the track, “Call Me” (in which Letitia was credited as one of the songwriters).	Between 1992 and 1994, Letitia provided vocals on albums by K.M.C. Kru, Lisa Taylor, Calloway, Kathy Sledge, Cortez, Keith Washington and Patti LaBelle. These days, it appears as if Body has faded into obscurity; it’s unknown what Letitia, Peggy and Francina are currently up to these days.
