	Before Dark was an American R&B girl group that originated in the late 1990s. The group consisted of sisters Arike Rice and Jeni Rice Genzuk (AKA Jeni G.), and their friend Mia Wright (née Lee), all from South Central Los Angeles. The group released the album Daydreamin' on July 11, 2000, on the RCA Records label with a single called "Baby" featuring rapper Solé. They also made a guest appearance on Tyrese's self-titled debut album. Later in 2000, the single "Monica" hit #77 on the Billboard Top 100 chart and #7 on the Billboard R&B sales chart. The group disbanded in 2001.
	Arike Rice was formerly a member of the 90's group Voices when she was nine. She also appeared in the musical films Dreamgirls, as a member of'The Stepp Sisters', and Hairspray, as a member of "The Dynamites" in 2006 and 2007 respectively. Mia Lee married basketball player Dorell Wright in 2014. Lastly, Jeni G. became a writer and supervising producer for The CW/Black Entertainment Television series The Game, which starred her sister Arike's former Voices singing member Tia Mowry. She is currently a writer and a supervising producer of the American Broadcasting Company series Black-ish, for which she was nominated for an Emmy Award in 2016. 
This article on a United States R&B/soul music band, group, or collective is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.Before Dark were a female R&B trio from the late ’90s/early 2000s that consisted of Arike Rice, her sister, Jeni (also known as Jeni G) and their friend, Mia Lee.
	In the early ’90s, Arike was a member of another R&B girl group, Voices and the three of them were featured on the covers of “The Cheetah Girls” novels. They later signed a record deal with RCA Records. In 1999, the trio released their debut single, “Come Correct” which peaked at #93 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 4 weeks. Their follow-up single, “Baby” (featuring rapper Solé) peaked at #48 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 9 weeks. In 2000, Before Dark released their third single, “Monica” which peaked at #41 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 9 weeks. It also peaked at #77 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #22 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart. In July of that same year, they released their debut and only album, “Daydreamin'” which didn’t make the charts at all. It was supposed to be released in 1999, but due to the low charting performances of the first two singles, RCA Records decided to delay the release.
	In the summer of 2000, Before Dark was one of the opening acts on Christina Aguilera’s “In Concert” tour in Bonner Springs, Kansas, Des Moines, Iowa and Springfield, Illinois. By 2001, the trio had disbanded.
	These days (according to research), Arike is a stylist and costume designer. Jeni is a screenwriter and an executive producer on the Freeform network series, “Grown-Ish.” Mia is married to former professional basketball player, Dorell Wright. She is also the president & director of the National Basketball Wives Association, and the executive director of the Wright Legacy Foundation.
