	Countess Danielle Vaughn (born August 8, 1978) an American actress and singer, best known for her role as Alexandra DeWitt on 227 and as Kim Parker on the UPN sitcom, Moesha and spin-off, The Parkers.
	Vaughn was born in Idabel, Oklahoma. She began her performing career at the age of three in 1981 singing at church. At age nine in 1988, she sang "I'll Be There" to win the Star Search junior vocalist champion and overall junior champion. She was married to Joseph James, with whom she has a son Jaylin. During an appearance on the Mo'Nique Show, she shared that she also has a daughter.
	Vaughn began her acting career in 1989 with the role of Alexandria DeWitt on 227, followed by roles in Thea, Hangin' with Mr. Cooper, and Roc. She also performed in several television specials including the Lou Rawls Parade of Stars, The Magical World of Disney, the Orange Bowl Parade, the Easter Seals Telethon.
	Outside of television, she performed in the off-Broadway musical Mama, I Want to Sing! In 1998, Vaughn was honored with an NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for her performance in Moesha. In 1992, Vaughn released her first album, Countess, featuring a variety of songs, including dance music and urban ballads. The album's lone single, a cover of James Brown's "It's A Man's, Man's, Man's World", charted in the top-100 of the Billboard R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart; the album itself sold a mere 3,000 copies. She starred in (and also sang the theme song for) the UPN sitcom, The Parkers, until the show's ending in 2004. In 2011, Vaughn made her return to situational comedy on the BET sitcom Let's Stay Together. Vaughn portrayed the friend of the character Kita portrayed by Erica Hubbard.
	Vaughn appeared in the third season of Celebrity Fit Club which premiered in January 2006 on VH1. On episode four,she announced that her and husband, James, were ending their marriage. During the course of the show, she became the first cast member to ever gain weight, with a weight gain of 4 pounds. It was said on the season finale that she was simply trying to lose weight at the wrong time. Celebrity Rap Superstar
	Vaughn appears as a contestant on MTV's Celebrity Rap Superstar which premiered August 30, 2007. She studied under Warren G for the show. On September 27, 2007, an illness caused her to be eliminated from the competition.