	Black Buddafly is a German R&B duo composed of twin sisters Aminata "Amina" and Safietou "Jazz" Schmahl, who are of Senegalese and German descent. 
	The sisters were born in 1983 to a German mother and a Senegalese father. They were discovered in 2002, along with their older sibling, Sophie, by producer and manager Orrin Ennis, who signed the sisters to Germany's RCA as a trio under the name Choyce. In 2005, they signed to Def Jam, releasing the singles "Rock-a-Bye" and "Bad Girl" with the rapper Fabolous. Sophie departed the group in 2006 and Amina and Jazz continued the group as a duo.
	Black Buddafly eventually disbanded and Amina pursued a solo career. In 2013, she garnered attention as a cast member on Love & Hip Hop: New York. Black Buddafly were an R&B duo that consisted of twin sisters Amina (full name Aminata) and Jazz (full name Safietou) Schmahl (born in 1983 in Hamburg, Germany). They were born to a German mother & a Senegalese father.
They were originally a trio with their older sister Sophie, who was with the group until 2006. Their father played various instruments such as the saxophone & guitar.
	In 1997, the Schmahl sisters signed a record deal with BMG Germany and released their first single “Choyce.” In 2002, they relocated to New York City to pursue their music career. In 2004, they met Russell Simmons and were signed to his record label, RSMG. In 2005, Black Buddafly released their debut single “Rock-A-Bye” which peaked at #70 on the Billboard Hot R&B/Hip Hop Songs chart, staying on the chart for 9 weeks. During that same year, they began working on their debut album. In 2006, they released their second single “Bad Girl” (featuring rapper Fabolous) which was featured on the soundtrack to the film “Waist Deep.” The song flopped on the charts and after that, not much was heard about their upcoming album. In 2011, they released a mixtape called “Worst Of…. Black Buddafly: The Forgotten MP3s.”
	After Black Buddafly broke up, Jazz went back to Germany to start a family while Amina stayed in the United States to pursue a solo career.
	These days, Amina (now Amina Buddafly) is continuing her solo career & in 2013, she starred on the VH1 reality show “Love & Hip-Hop,” and continued to appear on different spin-offs of the franchise before it was cancelled in 2026.