	Chloe x Halle are an R&B duo composed of sisters Chlöe and Halle Bailey. At a young age, the sisters performed in minor acting roles before moving from Mableton, Georgia to Los Angeles in 2012. While they were living in Georgia, the two played minor acting roles in films, including The Fighting Temptations (2003), starring Beyoncé, where Chloe starred solo, and the Disney Channel original movie Let It Shine (2012). Their father began teaching them how to write songs at the ages of ten and eight. They launched a YouTube channel at the ages of 13 and 11, respectively, with a cover of Beyoncé's "Best Thing I Never Had." They first performed as Chloe x Halle when uploading covers of pop songs onto this channel. The duo made their talk show debut when they appeared on The Ellen Show in April 2012. They were the winners of the fifth season of The Next Big Thing on Radio Disney in December 2012, and they made a cameo appearance in the Disney series Austin & Ally performing the song "Unstoppable" in September 2013.
	After gaining prominence with their YouTube videos and Disney projects, the duo independently released a four-track project titled Uncovered in 2013. The release was made up of covers of the pop songs "Applause", "We Can't Stop", "Roar", and "Wrecking Ball". Their rendition of Beyoncé's "Pretty Hurts" went viral and drew the attention of the singer herself. In 2015, Beyoncé signed the duo to her management company, Parkwood Entertainment, with a reported $1 million deal for six albums. The duo made a cameo appearance in Beyoncé's visual album Lemonade (2016) and accepted the BET Award for Viewer's Choice on her behalf in 2016. 
	They subsequently released the EP "Sugar Symphony" (2016) and the mixtape "The Two of Us" (2017). The duo gained further prominence after releasing their debut album "The Kids Are Alright" (2018), for which they earned two Grammy Award nominations including'Best New Artist' and'Best Urban Contemporary Album'. In 2020, they released their second studio album "Ungodly Hour" to critical acclaim, earning them another three Grammy Award nominations including'Best Progressive R&B Album','Best R&B Song' for "Do It" and'Best Traditional R&B Performance' for "Wonder What She Thinks of Me". The album's lead single "Do It" became the duo's first song to chart on the Billboard Hot 100 peaking at number 63.
	They both went solo in 2021, but said they aren't finished working as a duo. Chloe released her solo debut In Pieces in 2023 through Parkwood Entertainment. Halle starred in the live action Little Mermaid in 2022. 