	Natalie Delia Louise La Rose (born 11 July 1988) is a Dutch singer. In 2013, she signed a recording contract with American rapper Flo Rida's International Music Group imprint and Republic Records. She is best known for her 2015 song "Somebody".
	La Rose was born in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Her parents are of Surinamese ancestry. La Rose has a sister, with whom she would dance and sing during her childhood. She also has two older brothers, who are not dancers nor singers. La Rose graduated in 2008 at the Lucia Marthas Dance Academy in Amsterdam, where she had studied singing and dancing.
	At the age of 22, La Rose moved to Los Angeles, California, to become a singer and dancer. She explained: "I didn't feel like I was getting anywhere in the Netherlands. I'd always had this belief that America was the place to be for me."
	In 2010, La Rose got her first opportunity when she signed a deal with Aaliyah's former label Blackground Records, while being distributed by Interscope Records, as part of a musical duo named Amsterdam with dancer Sigourney Korper, who debuted in the music video for label mate J. Lewis and Flo Rida's "Dancing for Me". However, she says of this situation: "The group didn't work out, and no music was released. It just wasn't the right time."
	In 2011, La Rose appeared as the leading female dancer in Lloyd's "Dedication to My Ex (Miss That)". In the same year, while at an ESPY Awards after party, she went up to Flo Rida and told him that she was going to work with him one day. Impressed with La Rose's confidence, the multi-platinum international superstar invited her to the studio. Over the next two years, she performed with Flo Rida around the world.
	In 2013, La Rose officially signed a deal with his International Music Group (IMG) label and Republic Records.
	On January 6, 2015, she released her debut single, "Somebody" (featuring Jeremih). "Somebody" peaked at No. 2 on the Official UK Singles Chart, No. 10 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and No. 12 on the Australian ARIA Singles Chart. On 24 April 2015, it was announced that La Rose will accompany Debby Ryan and Bea Miller as opening acts for the summer leg of Fifth Harmony's Reflection Tour, which began on 15 July in Louisville, Kentucky. On 2 June 2015, she released her second single, "Around the World" (featuring Fetty Wap), produced by Max Martin. [citation needed] The song was written by Marco Borrero, Ilya Salmanzadeh, Martin, Savan Kotecha, Rickard Goransson, DJ Frank E, and Fetty Wap. [citation needed] An accompanying music video for "Around the World" premiered on 24 July 2015.
	In May 2022, La Rose released "Tables", her first single in seven years. The song was released under Global Sound Entertainment, indicating that La Rose was no longer signed to Republic Records.
	On October 16, 2024, she released her debut EP 2 Sides of a Rose.
	La Rose cites Aaliyah, Beyoncé, Shakira, Selena, Janet Jackson, Mariah Carey, Michael Jackson, Jennifer Lopez, Musiq Soulchild, Stevie Wonder, and Whitney Houston among her musical influences.