	Changing Faces is an American female R&B duo that was initially active between the years 1994 until their hiatus in 2000. For two years, the girls were back-up singers for singer Sybil. They later returned to New York where during the day, they worked at a dermatologist’s office and at night, they recorded demos with music producer Dinky Bingham.
	The duo was signed to Big Beat Records after being discovered singing on the streets by a local record producer.
In July of 1994, they released their debut single “Stroke You Up” which became a hit, peaking at #3 on the Billboard Hot 100, #9 on Billboard’s Hot Dance Music/Maxi-Singles Sales chart, #2 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart and #2 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 23 weeks. It was also moderately successful in the United Kingdom & New Zealand. R. Kelly wrote & produced the song (along with providing vocals as well).
In August of that same year, Changing Faces released their self-titled debut album which peaked at #25 on the Billboard 200 and topped Billboard’s R&B Albums chart.
The second single from the album “Foolin’ Around” peaked at #38 on the Billboard Hot 100, #23 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart, #24 on Billboard’s Hot Dance Music/Maxi-Singles Sales chart and #9 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks.
	By October of 1994, the album was certified Gold by the RIAA with sales of 500,000 copies in the U.S.
	The last single from the album “Keep It Right There” peaked at #49 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 11 weeks.
	In 1995, Changing Faces released the single “We Got it Goin’ On” (which was featured on the soundtrack to the film “White Man’s Burden”) which managed to peak at #61 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 10 weeks.
	A year later, they were featured on the soundtrack to the film “High School High” with the song “I Got Somebody Else” which managed to peak at #123 on Billboard’s Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart and #49 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 9 weeks.
	In April of 1997, the duo released the single “G.H.E.T.T.O.U.T.” which became another hit for them, topping Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart for 4 weeks. It also peaked at #8 on the Billboard Hot 100, #7 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart and #48 on Billboard’s Hot Dance Music/Maxi-Singles Sales chart.
	In June of 1997, Changing Faces released their sophomore album “All Day, All Night” which peaked at #21 on the Billboard 200 and #6 on Billboard’s R&B Albums chart.
The follow-up single “All of My Days” (featuring Jay-Z) peaked at #65 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #38 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks. It was also featured on the soundtrack to the film “Space Jam.”
	The last single, a cover version of Cyndi Lauper’s song “Time After Time” managed to peak at #35 on the U.K. Singles chart. Changing Faces were also featured on O.C.’s song “Can’t Go Wrong.”
	In 1998, the duo was featured on the soundtrack to the film “The Players’ Club” with the song “Same Tempo” which peaked at #72 on Billboard’s R&B Airplay chart and #53 on the U.K. Singles chart. They were also featured on the “Dr. Doolittle” soundtrack with the song “Do Little Things” featuring Ivan Matias.
	In 2000, Changing Faces released the single “That Other Woman” which peaked at #64 on the Billboard Hot 100, #21 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart, #5 on Billboard’s Hot Dance Music/Club Play Singles chart, #3 on Billboard’s Hot Dance Music/Maxi-Singles Sales chart and #16 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks.
In October of that same year, they released their third album “Visit Me” which peaked at #46 on the Billboard 200 and #9 on Billboard’s R&B Albums chart.
	The follow-up single “Ladies Man” peaked at #67 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 8 weeks.
	In August 2009, a new Changing Faces song was leaked online called "Crazy Luv". The song was rumored to be on their new album, but was not confirmed by Lucas or Rose to be their comeback single off their new album, which was rumored to be released sometime in 2012.
	On September 18, 2011, during a special appearance at the RnB Spotlight Concert with Lil Mo' at BB King's Blues Club in NYC, Changing Faces member Lucas announced on Kempire Radio and on YouKnowIGotSoul.com that she and Rose were in the recording studio working on a new Changing Faces project that would be released in 2012, with a new single being released soon. She also stated that the group never broke up and was working with R. Kelly on new music.
	On April 3, 2013, Changing Faces released a new single "Hate Love" via iTunes. A music video was filmed but was not released.
	In 2014, Changing Faces was scheduled to perform at an Rhythm & Blues Superstars concert in the United Kingdom - however, Rose brought along Reefy Scott who is also the new member of the group to tour and perform without telling Lucas. As a result, Lucas filed a lawsuit towards Rose - despite the duo mutually agreeing to halt any plans for a reunion.
	In September 2013, it was announced that Cassandra Lucas was working on a solo album in addition to forming a new label CRC Musik with her husband Noel “Chris” Absolam and business partner Richard Smith. Her debut solo single, "Damn" was released on September 3, 2013. She released subsequent singles "Music & a Beat" in July 2017 as well as "Give Love a Chance" and "I Love You" later that year.
	Lucas’ first single "Name on It" premiered in January 2018 and became a hit on the Urban AC chart. Her second single was "Take Me Home". "Take Me Home" (Remix) featuring Ron Browz and HoodCelebrityy was supposed to receive major promotion with the music video scheduled to film in Harlem throughout the African American Day Parade, but remains unreleased. 
	In April 2019, Cassandra Lucas released her debut solo album Long Way Home... The Intro.
	Charisse Rose performed at a 1990s World Pride Concert in June 2019 with Reefy Scott as the new member.
