	Horace Brown (from Charlotte, North Carolina) is an R&B singer from the ’90s.
	As the son of an Apostolic minister, he began singing in church during his youth. He played the saxophone & the trombone in his high school marching band.  He was set to pursue a career as a professional basketball player, but a knee injury halted the dream and he went on to pursue a career in music.
	In 1991, Horace got his break when DeVante Swing (of R&B group Jodeci) became interested in his demo. He then earned spots doing background vocals for artists such as Christopher Williams and Terri & Monica.
	After Uptown Records president Andre Harrell saw him in a recording session, Horace managed to get a recording contract with the label. In 1994, he released his debut single, “Taste Your Love” which was banned in some parts of the South due to its lyrical content about oral sex. Despite that, the song managed to peak at #38 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 19 weeks and #3 on Billboard’s Bubbing Under Hot 100 Singles chart. A year later in 1995, Horace’s second single, “Just Let Me Know” was released as a promotional 12-inch single, but it was cancelled along with his debut album for the label. When Andre Harrell moved on to work for Motown Records, he took Horace with him. In 1996, Horace released the single, “One for the Money” which peaked at #62 on the Billboard Hot 100, #12 on Billboard’s Hot Dance Music\Club Play chart and #14 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks. During that same year, he released his self-titled debut album which peaked at #145 on the Billboard 200 and #18 on Billboard’s R&B Albums chart. The second single from the album, “Things We Do For Love” peaked at #95 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #40 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 17 weeks. The last single released from the album, “How Can We Stop” (featuring R&B singer Faith Evans) peaked at #25 on Billboard’s Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart and #77 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 15 weeks.
	Three more tracks from the album: “I Want You Baby,” “Why Why Why” and “Trippin” were released as promotional 12-inch singles.
	After that, Horace went on to do various collaborations with artists such as Mr. Cheeks, Royal Flush, Lisha, Naudy and PrinZe Gabriel. In the 2000s, he released two singles “Shake It Up” (in 2000) and “This is the One” (featuring rapper Styles P in 2001).
	As of 2013, Horace toured overseas with Keith Sweat and other R&B artists. In 2015, he starred on the syndicated reality series “Come Back Kings” which featured music artists such as Ed Lover, Mr. Cheeks, Black Rob, Calvin Richardson, David “Davinch” Chance (of music group Ruff Endz), Jameio and Jeff Sanders.
	These days, according to research, it appears as if Horace continues to be active as a performer. He has teamed up with entertainment veteran Tony Vanias and his company, Matchbox Entertainment to work on writing & producing music.