	Voices were an R&B music girl group from the ’90s that formed in Los Angeles, California in 1989. The group originally consisted of LaToya McMoore, Monique Wilson and Tia & Tamera Mowry. In 1992, they released their debut single, “Yeah, Yeah, Yeah!” which peaked at #14 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 18 weeks. It also peaked at #72 on the Billboard Hot 100 (making it their only appearance on the chart) and #31 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart. During that same year, they released their debut and only studio album, “Just the Beginning…” which peaked at #66 on Billboard’s Top R&B\Hip-Hop Albums chart.
	Before the album’s release, Tia and Tamera were removed from Voices by their mother, Darlene because she didn’t approve of the management of their record label, Zoo Entertainment. After that, the Mowry twins were replaced by Arike Rice and LaToya’s twin sister, LaPetra. The group’s follow-up single, “M.M.D.R.N.F. (My Mama Didn’t Raise No Fool)” peaked at #53 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 12 weeks. Voices’ last charting single, “Cloudy with a Chance of Tears” peaked at #97 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for only 2 weeks. Afterwards, they disbanded due to issues with their management and Zoo Entertainment ultimately folded.
	These days (according to LaToya Moore on social media), LaToya is married to singer Marc Gordon from R&B group LeVert and has children. She often does live musical performances and currently works in the catering business.
	LaPetra enlisted in the Army as part of the Hawaiian National Guard and served in Iraq. She is married to a woman and often trains at the gym.
	Monique (who goes by Momo) moved to Hawaii, settled down and had children. She became an indie singer and worked at an art gallery from 1999 to 2007.
	After Voices came to an end, Arike became a model for “The Cheetah Girls” book series along with her sister, Jeni and her friend, Mia. The three of them went on to form an R&B girl group, Before Dark, who gained moderate success in the late ’90s and early 2000s.
	In later years, she worked as a back-up dancer for artists such as Janet Jackson, the Black Eyed Peas, Missy Elliot and Kanye West. These days, Arike works as a costume designer and stylist.