	Taral Hicks (born on September 21, 1974 in the Bronx, New York) is a female R&B singer and actress. She is also the younger sister of singer\actress D’Atra Hicks and gospel singer Miriam Hicks.
	Taral started singing when she was 5 years old where she was a featured soloist at her church opening up for her older sisters. When she was 12 years old, she appeared in the play, “Mama, I Want to Sing” in a singing role that her sister, D’Atra formerly performed several years ago. When she was 16, she starred in the play, “Let the Music Play Gospel.”
	Taral graduated from Grace Dodge Vocational High School in the Bronx in 1993 and also in that same year, she starred in the Robert De Niro movie, “A Bronx Tale.” She also appeared in other movies such as “Just Cause,” “Educating Max Flowers,” and “The Preacher’s Wife.”
	It wasn’t until Taral’s role in the 1997 HBO film, “Subway Stories” that audiences took recognition. She portrayed the role as “Woman With Flowers” who sang to her mom on a payphone and Taral’s performance was deemed to be one of the best performances in the movie. In 1997, Taral signed to Motown Records and released her debut album, “This Time” which didn’t appear to chart at all on the Billboard 200 or R&B Albums chart.
	The first single from the album, “Oooh Oooh Baby” featuring Missy Elliott (who also produced and wrote the song), peaked at #81 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 5 weeks. The second single, “Distant Lover” (which was produced by Teddy Riley) peaked at #60 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 12 weeks, making it her longest chart appearance to date.
	The last single, a cover version of Deniece Williams’ song, “Silly” peaked at #54 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 18 weeks, making it her highest chart appearance to date.
	After collaborating with music video\film director Hype Williams on the music video for “Silly,” he cast Taral in his directorial film debut (and Taral’s largest role to date), “Belly,” playing DMX’s girlfriend, Kisha. The music video for “Silly” appeared in one of the movie’s scenes.