	Amina (formally known as member of the group “Black Buddafly”) was born and raised in Hamburg Germany, to a senegalese father and a german mother, where the story of her musical journey starts.
	Together with her older sister Sophie and her twin Jazz she began singing before she could talk, her Mother (a music lover who introduced her to the old Motown, The Jacksons, Earth Wind and Fire, Marvin Gaye etc.) says. There was always music playing in the house. Dad, who is a hobby Jazz musician, played the guitar, sax and salsa music all day long and Mom would sing with her daughters whenever she could.
	At the age of 6 Amina joined a classical choir and soon after she started doing musicals and toured with local pop acts and gospel groups.
She started songwriting at the age of 13 and the day she discovered studio recording it was over. She just knew THIS was what she wanted to do. And there was no stopping her.
	She signed her first record deal in 1997 together with her sisters with BMG germany and released a single under the Name “Choyce”.
	Soon she realized there was something missing. In 2002, after a couple of more tries with other labels and production teams in germany and europe Amina and the girls took the big step. Without a plan, over night they packed their bags and flew to New York City with nothing but $600 dollars and a Dream. Leaving everything behind in Germany, they had "no choice but to “make it in America”. And they did.
	A few years ago after going through all the ups and downs this music business has to offer, Amina made the decision to from that point on only do what she loves without trying to please everyone else. Even though it was hard, she invested in a piano and started teaching herself. Her sound began to evolve even more and the songwriting became much more sophisticated.
Through her big range of musical influences (it starts with her childhood idol Mariah Carey to ABBA to The Bangles, Carmen McRae, Joe Sample and her todays favorite Linda Perry), she has learned how to create timeless music. She’s all about vocal arrangement and big melodies.
	Amina describes her music as pure and real with truthful, meaningful lyrics and organic sounds. “Music is a feeling and I believe only if it comes from my heart and I really love it, people can feel it.” Her catalog holds more than 400 songs that she has written over the past few years. She also has learned how to engineer and produce.. instead of going/hanging out, she likes to stay home, work on her LOGIC skills, and practice the piano.
	