	Chanté Torrane Moore (born February 17, 1967) is an American singer, songwriter, actress and author. Born to a gospel minister, Moore grew up singing in the church and was heavily influenced by the music of George Duke and Lee Ritenour. While in high school, she decided to make a career of singing. She was a successful beauty pageant contestant and model when she was discovered by the late Louil Silas at 22, a record executive who had started his own label, Silas Records, then distributed by MCA. Moore has recorded several hit records, including "Love's Taken Over", "Alright", "I'm What You Need", "Old School Lovin'", and "Free" (a cover of a Deniece Williams' original song that showcases her effortless flip into whistle register by jumping an octave higher than the song's original top note). Moore was also featured on the soundtrack of the 1995 film Waiting To Exhale with the song "Wey U", which also shows off her ability to reach the whistle register. Once married to Kadeem Hardison, she then married to Kenny Lattimore, with whom she is now divorced. The two are currently a duet act on Jive Records, where they remade Minnie Riperton and Peabo Bryson's 70's soul hit "Here We Go" on their album, Things That Lovers Do. It is interesting to note that Moore is still signed as a catalog artist with MCA.
	In 2000, Moore earned a Soul Train Music Awards nomination, alongside Whitney Houston and Mariah Carey, for "Single of the Year, Female" for her Billboard No. 2 R&B / No. 10 Pop hit "Chante's Got a Man". However, she lost the award to Lauryn Hill. The single was also certified Gold by the RIAA for sales of over 500,000 copies in America. In 2002, she won a Soul Train Music Award for Best R&B/Soul Single, Group, Band or Duo for "Contagious" featuring The Isley Brothers. She also appeared on the hit UPN show Girlfriends, singing Minnie Riperton's Lovin' You. In 2002, Moore sang on Kenny G's single "One More Time," which registered on the Smooth Jazz and Adult Contemporary singles charts.
	In 2006 Asian singer Hyori remade Moore's single "Straight Up", it became a top ten hit in Korea. Additionally, in 2006 it was confirmed by Peak Records executive and founder that Chante Moore has signed a record deal with the independent label. Moore released her fifth solo album Love the Woman on June 17, 2008. The album's lead single "Ain't Supposed to Be This Way" impacted radio on May 12, 2008.
	In 2009, Moore set some dates for a Love the Woman tour, with performances in Los Angeles, and Atlanta, Georgia. Additionally, she starred with James Pickens, Jr. (of Grey's Anatomy), Vickie Winans, Loretta Devine, Reginald VelJohnson, Rocky Carroll and Kenny Lattimore in a live stage production of Otis Sallid's Gospel! Gospel! Gospel at the Wilshire Ebell Theater in May 2009.
	In July 2011, it was announced that she would be the TV host for an upcoming women's fitness reality series sponsored by SportyGirl Fitness. The following year, Moore performed at the 2012 BET Awards at the Shrine Auditorium in a tribute to the late singer Donna Summer.
	On January 1, 2013, Moore inked a new record deal with Shanachie Entertainment. She released her sixth studio solo album "Moore is More" on July 30, 2013 which was preceded by the single "Talking In My Sleep."
	In early 2013, it was announced that Moore had joined the cast of the Reality TV show "R&B Divas L.A." with Kelly Price, Dawn Robinson (of En Vogue), Michel'le, Lil' Mo & Claudette Ortiz. They filmed the series throughout the year, and it premiered/aired during the summer.