	Nikita Germaine is another bright star to emerge from the talent rich soil of Oakland, CA. As the youngest of nine children, she’s been singing since she was a young girl in talent shows from elementary thru high school. After studying music at Merritt College and San Francisco State University, Nikita decided to pursue her music career by performing in clubs in the San Francisco Bay Area, creating an industry buzz. She soon took her talents to the recording studio developing her own musical style and sharpening her songwriting skills. It was during this time she was introduced to Grammy winning producer Narada Michael Walden. Impressed with Nikita’s unique voice, she quickly became part of Narada’s signature sound and he soon had her singing vocals on album’s such as Aretha Franklin’s "Who’s Zoomin Who" CD. Since then she has contributed vocals on CDs for artists such as Whitney Houston’s "Body Guard," LaToya London, Tevin Campbell, Steve Winwood, Curtis Mayfield, and Shanice Wilson.
	Soon it became evident that Nikita had special gifts. Her stunning beauty and sultry voice caught the eyes and ears of Motown Records which she called home for her debut album, "As Sweet as it Comes." Nikita again teamed up with Narada Michael Walden, but this time as THE artist as he produced one of the singles "All Over You, All Over Me." She also ventured into song writing as she co-wrote "Take Me Higher," with Narada for Diana Ross.
	Nikita recently teamed up with Darkside of Family Tree Productions to craft her sophomore album "Just Kita." Handpicked songs, many penned by Nikita herself, open a window to the songstress you have never seen. Her powerful vocals carry the tightly produced album and will be led off with the upper mid-tempo jam, "911-LOVE."
	Nikita is prepared to take her music to her fans with a full band live performance onstage where she really feels at home. Nikita has already shared the stage with Stevie Wonder, Chaka Khan, James Taylor, Patti Austin, and the William’s Brothers, which explains her captivating stage presence and mesmerizing vocal delivery. Nikita has performed internationally throughout Europe and Japan and is set to take center stage and once again and reminds us that when beauty meets talent and determination, you will find Nikita.