	II D Extreme was an R&B/new-jack swing group from the early 90’s whose members consisted of Randy Gill (brother of New Edition member, Johnny Gill), Jermaine Mickey and D’Extra Wiley from Washington, DC.
	The group came onto the music scene as an unsigned group that made their first demo song, “Cry No More.” A DJ at WPGC-FM played the demo on the air which lead to major demand for nationwide airplay even though II D Extreme wasn’t signed to a record label yet. Several months after the “Cry No More” demo was released, the group released their self-titled debut album which peaked at #115 on the Billboard 200 and #22 on Billboard’s Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. “Cry No More” became II D Extreme’s biggest hit to date, peaking at #48 on the Billboard Hot 100, #6 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, and #34 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart.
	The song was certified Gold by the RIAA, spent 4 weeks at the top of BET’s “Video Soul” countdown, 7 weeks at Jet Magazine’s top charts, earned the group a Soul Train Music Award nomination and also a ASCAP award for “Best Urban Debut Song.”
	In their hometown of DC, the group received a Wammie award. The group has appeared on Jay Leno, Arsenio Hall, Soul Train, MTV, and BET. The group’s second single, “Up on the Roof” peaked at #33 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart. The last single, “Let Me Love You” peaked at #70 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart. In 1996, the group released their sophomore album, “From I Extreme II Another” which failed to chart at all on the Billboard albums chart. In 1997, the group introduced a new member, Sage Lee. The two singles released, “If I Knew Then (What I Know Now)” and “You Got Me Goin” weren’t also very successful. When their record label, Gasoline Alley shut down, the group went their separate ways.
	Today, D’Extra Wiley is a producer, artist, and songwriter. He worked with artists such as Queen Latifah and K-Ci and JoJo. He wrote the theme song for the show, “The Hughleys.”
	Currently, D’Extra is now producing a gospel project with his siblings called “The Wileys” and continues to do radio consulting and writing scripts & screenplays.
	Randy Gill continues to work as an R&B singer. He and his brother, Johnny have entertained American troops in Bosnia, Kosovo, and Macedonia with the USO Tour. Today, Randy is working on a solo album. Jermaine Mickey is a gospel singer and released his first gospel album, “Testimonies” in 2008.
	Sage Lee is part of the production team, “5th Lnmnt” and works with a stable of artists. The group is still together, creating new music. It’s unknown when they’ll release a new album, but hopefully soon.