	Deja were an American R&B recording duo formed in 1985 in Dayton, Ohio.
	Initially, the members were Curt Jones and Starleana Young. Previously, both were members of Symphonic Express. In the midst of a tour, Young was requested by producer, Steve Washington, to join the band, Slave. She agreed and did just that in 1977. Due to Slave's large size, it was spun off into Aurra, which Washington then asked Jones and Young to partake. They did just that and gained some moderately successful, R&B hits, "Make Up Your Mind", being their lone Billboard Hot 100 chart hit. Through Salsoul, they cut and released four albums prior to going on hiatus. During that time, Young made and released her solo debut single, "Heartbreaker", under her full name in 1983. They switched labels, moving to Plateau Records/Ten Records, through which they put out their final album under the Aurra name. 
	A legal dispute over the right and claim to the name led to Jones and Young renaming themselves Deja. Young was inspired by the term, "deja vu", which she looked up in a dictionary and settled on that due to the road they took being so reminiscent and familiar. In 1987, they released their Virgin Records debut as Déjà, Serious, which was produced in large part by the Time member Monte Moir. Featured on this album was "You and Me Tonight", from the group's Aurra days, introducing American audiences to the song for the first time. "You and Me Tonight" charted in the upper reaches of the US Billboard R&B chart (peaking at number two) and crossed over onto the pop charts, where it peaked at number 54, making it the highest-charting single from any Aurra-associated group. Meanwhile, Starleana Young decided to leave to pursue a solo career and was replaced by Mysti Day in time to record Déjà's follow-up album. The resulting album, Made to Be Together was released in 1989, with the Teddy Riley - produced title track becoming a minor R&B hit.
	In 2013, Family Groove Records recovered the lost tapes for the unreleased'fifth' Aurra album Satisfaction, originally recorded in 1984. The direction of the album was supervised by Steve Washington, Amuka Kelly (also known as Sheila Horne Washington), and Daniel Borine. In 2015 Family Groove Records released the Body Rock album.
	In 2019, Aurra's second album as Déjà, the long out of print Made to Be Together was released to digital and streaming platforms.