	After 7 is an American R&B group founded in 1987 by brothers Melvin and Kevon Edmonds, and their friend Keith Mitchell. The Edmonds brothers are the older siblings of pop/R&B singer-songwriter and record producer Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds, who named the group and helped them get a record deal with Virgin Records in 1988. After 7 released their platinum -selling self-titled debut album in 1989, which spawned three singles "Heat of the Moment", "Ready or Not" and "Can't Stop". "Ready or Not" and "Can't Stop" were No. 1 R&B hits and top 10 hits on the Billboard Hot 100. Their second album Takin' My Time, released in 1992, also went platinum and contained the R&B hit medley "Baby, I'm for Real / Natural High". After 7's Gold-selling 1995 album Reflections was their last album before the group disbanded in 1997. The album included the R&B hit "'Til You Do Me Right. Years later the group resumed touring with Jason Edmonds, son of Melvin Edmonds, replacing his father. Melvin rejoined the group for their successful 2016 comeback album Timeless, which featured 3 adult R&B top 10 hits"Runnin' Out","I Want You" and "Let Me Know". 
	Melvin Edmonds died on May 18, 2019, at the age of 65. Jason left the group shortly thereafter and Daniel McClain was added in 2019. Four years later, McClain departed and was replaced by Wil Robinson. At the end of 2024, Mitchell departed the group for a gospel music career and was replaced by singer Jeremy Keith. 
	Marvin Edmonds Sr. and Barbara Edmonds of Indianapolis, Indiana had six sons: Marvin Jr., Melvin, Michael, Kevon, Kenneth and Derek. According to Babyface, Melvin and Kevon were the two best singers in the musical family. The roots of After 7 trace to when Kevon met Keith Mitchell at Indiana University Bloomington in the late 1970s, where they were members of the Indiana University Soul Revue. Kevon and Keith decided to form a group as a hobby and added Melvin. For years Kevon worked at Eli Lilly and Company, Mitchell worked at John Hancock in Chicago and Melvin worked at Chrysler Corp. in Indianapolis. They would occasionally come together to perform in Indianapolis. Mitchell was long thought to be the cousin of Babyface's then-songwriting/production partner Antonio "L.A." Reid; however, this was set up as a marketing tool for the group and was incorrect. 
	By the late 1980s, the Edmonds' younger brother Babyface had built a successful career singing, writing and producing. He invited Melvin, Kevon and Keith out to Los Angeles, named them After 7, and got them a record deal with Virgin Records.
	After 7 toured with MC Hammer in the summer of 1990, and they won an NAACP Image Award for best new male artist or group that year. In 1991, they released the top 10 R&B hit "Nights Like This" for The Five Heartbeats movie soundtrack. That same year, they took the road as Whitney Houston's opening act on her I'm Your Baby Tonight World Tour. 
	After 7's second album Takin' My Time was released in August 1992. The album is notable for being their only album without any songs produced by Babyface and L.A. Reid, who were focused on developing other artists. Instead, they contribute as writers, with Reid co-writing the songs "Can He Love U Like This" and "G.S.T.", and Babyface writing "Truly Something Special" and "Love by Day/Love by Night". The production was handed over to Daryl Simmons & Kayo, who co-produced and co-wrote many of the songs on their debut album. 
	Other songs on the album were produced by Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis associate Randy Ran and producer Dallas Austin. As a result, this gave Takin' My Time a decidedly "new jack swing" sound and feel. Three singles were released from the album; the first was "Kickin' It", followed by a medley of The Originals'song "Baby I'm for Real" and Bloodstone's "Natural High". The third single was "Can He Love U Like This". The album was certified platinum by the RIAA. 
	Reflections is the third and last studio album by After 7 before the group split. The album reunited them with producer Babyface and L.A. Reid. They also enlisted the production talents of Babyface protegés Jon B. and Keith Andes as well as newcomers The Boom Brothers. Reflections is the first After 7 album on which the members of the group are credited as both songwriters and executive producers. The album included the R&B top 5 hit "'Til You Do Me Right. Melvin exited the group after the release of Reflections and the group officially disbanded in 1997. After 7's last release on Virgin Records was the compilation album The Very Best of After 7 in March 1997. It included unreleased material, including a cover version of" Sara Smile ". Also in 1997, Melvin and Kevon joined their brother Babyface to form the quintet Milestone along with K-Ci & JoJo. The group only released one single,"I Care 'Bout You", for the Soul Food movie soundtrack.