	Rachelle Ferrell (born on May 21, 1961 in Berwyn, Pennsylvania) is a female R&B\jazz singer and musician from the ’90s.
	She began singing when she was 6 years old, and later began playing the violin and piano. When she was 18 years old, she enrolled at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts and graduated within a year.
	Rachelle taught music for a while with Dizzy Gillepsie for the New Jersey State Council on the Arts. From 1975 to 1990, she provided backing vocals for artists such as Lou Rawls, Patti LaBelle, Vanessa Williams, George Duke, Miles Jaye, Stu Gardner, Keith Robinson and The Manhattan Project. In June of 1990, she released her debut studio album, “First Instrument” in Japan where it became quite popular with jazz music fans.
	When the album was released in the United States five years later in April of 1995, it peaked at #151 on the Billboard 200, #2 on Billboard’s Top Jazz Albums chart and #6 on Billboard’s Heatseekers Albums chart. In August of 1992, Rachelle released the single, “‘Til You Come Back to Me” peaked at #19 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 14 weeks, becoming her highest chart appearance to date. In September of that same year, she released her self-titled sophomore album which peaked at #161 on the Billboard 200, #25 on Billboard’s R&B Albums chart and #4 on Billboard’s Heatseekers Albums chart. It was certified Gold by the RIAA with sales of 500,000. The second single from the album, “Welcome to My Love” peaked at #42 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 16 weeks. The song also peaked at #25 on Billboard’s Adult Contemporary chart, staying on the chart for 11 weeks. The third single, “Nothing Has Ever Felt Like This” (featuring singer Will Downing) peaked at #72 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 10 weeks. In 1994, the last single from the album, “With Open Arms” peaked at #68 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks, making it Rachelle’s longest chart appearance to date.
	Although her self-titled album received positive feedback from critics, it didn’t receive a lot of commercial success due to scant radio airplay. Rachelle did extensive tours in America and her record label provided heavy promotion before and after her concerts.
	Capitol Records later shut down its black music department, leaving Rachelle with no corporate support system. She went on a hiatus from recording music due to a legal battle with her record label which dragged on for eight years until it was eventually settled out of court; however, she continued to perform live. In August of 2000, she released her third studio album, “Individuality (Can I Be Me?)” which peaked at #71 on the Billboard 200, #16 on Billboard’s R&B Albums chart and topped Billboard’s Top Jazz Albums chart. The two singles from the album: “Satisfied” (which peaked at #11) and “I Forgive You” (which peaked at #13) were moderately successful on Billboard’s Adult R&B Songs chart. In April of 2002, Rachelle released her first and only live album, “Live at Montreaux 91-97” which peaked at #26 on Billboard’s Top Jazz Albums chart. According to research (as of 2018), she appears to still be performing live.