	Maya Russell, musically known as Maya Milan, is an American singer/songwriter. Born and raised in Largo, Maryland, Milan discovered her love for music while participating in her elementary school choir as a second grader. It was evident from that moment on; Maya had discovered her true passion. Maya believes singing is the window into ones soul; it is the form of expression that gives voice to one’s inner most thoughts and feelings. Maya speaks of her ability to let go, live in the moment and embody the harmonious melodic sounds that music brings. As a writer, she captures the delicacies and complexities of her life and turns them into stories to share with her fans. As a lyricist, these stories then become the foreground for creative musical compilations. Maya Milan is currently a college student, singer, and songwriter. She has performed in front of large crowds, and opened for artists such as: K. Michelle, J. Cole and the Migos among others. She recently became the first student to perform at the 2013 Morgan State University Homecoming concert. She also, performed at Howard University’s Yard Fest opening for several mainstream artists including Young Dro, 2 Chainz, Big Sean and more.
	She has been featured in several magazine publications and radio broadcasts such as: The Source Magazine, during the CMJ music Fest in 2012, the Spokesman, Baltimore’s WEAA 88.9 and 92 Q, D.C. WPGC 95.5, and Atlanta’s V-103 among others. She recently performed at S.O.B.s in New York City, where she won the Faces in The Crowd Showcase and was invited back Tuesday Jan 7th to open the show as a guest performer. In addition to her personal musical endeavors, Milan recently created a song entitled “All The Love” available for download on iTunes, Amazon, and Google Play for a non-profit organization dedicated to providing services for autistic children. She is currently an Independent artist, managed by Queen of Queen Management Music and Entertainment. Her first project was her 2016 EP, 11:11. Additional singles like "The Struggle" and "Don't Owe You" appeared over the next few years as she split time between her own music and working as Keith Sweat's touring vocalist.