	Playa was an R&B group from the late 90s whose members consisted of Static Major (born Stephen Garrett on November 11, 1974 in Louisville, Kentucky), Smokey (born Jawaan Peacock), and Digital Black (born Benjamin Bush).
	The group hailed from Louisville, Kentucky and was formed in high school. Smokey and Digital Black met through a friend who thought that the two of them would sound good together while Smokey met Static in a church gospel group.
	The group’s original name was As a Touch of Class and they signed to DeVante’s Swing Mob record label on Elektra Records in 1993.
	The group’s name changed to Playa after DeVante heard them sing. Playa participated in producing R&B group Jodeci’s album, “The Show, The After-Party, and the Hotel” in 1995. Around this time, the group built up a catalogue of songs that would later be a part of their debut album. In 1998, Playa released their debut album, “Cheers 2 U” which peaked at #86 on the Billboard 200 and #19 on Billboard’s R&B Albums chart.
	The group’s first single, “Don’t Stop the Music” peaked at #73 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #26 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks.
	The follow-up single, “Cheers 2 U” became the group’s biggest hit to date, peaking at #38 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #10 on Billboard’s Hot R&B Singles chart, staying on the chart for 20 weeks.
	In 2000, Playa was featured on “The Hurricane” movie soundtrack on the track, “Love Sets You Free” which also featured Kelly Price, Dru Hill, Montell Jordan, Case, Kandice Love, and Lovher.
	The song peaked at #24 on Billboard’s Hot R&B\Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 17 weeks.
	In 2002, Playa had plans to release a follow-up album entitled “Never Too Late.” The title song was released as a single and failed to chart in the U.S. (even though it topped the charts in Spain) and the album was shelved.
	The group was featured on soundtracks such as “Dr. Doolittle,” “Blue Streaks,” “How to Be a Player,” and “Romeo Must Die.” By 2003, the group had parted ways, but two members of the group kept themselves busy.
	Smokey (now Smoke E. Digglera) is now a solo artist. In 2009, he released his debut album, “The Truth in the Booth” which is available on iTunes.
	In 2011, he released his latest single, “The Winner” which is also available on iTunes as well. He continues to perform and record music.
	In 2005, Digital Black released his solo album, “Memoirs of an R&B Thug” and in 2007, he released his second album, “The Autobiography of Benjamin Bush.” Both albums are available on CD Baby.
	As for Static Major, he became a successful music producer, producing music for artists such as Ginuwine, Aaliyah and Pretty Ricky.
	Sadly in February of 2008, Static Major passed away at the age of 33 due to a cerebral aneurysm. After his death, the single he was featured on starring rapper Lil Wayne, “Lollipop” hit #1 on the Billboard charts, becoming his big posthumous hit.