	Ashton Dumar Norwill Simmonds (born April 5, 1995), known professionally as Daniel Caesar, is a Canadian singer and songwriter. After independently building a following through the release of two EPs, Praise Break (2014) and Pilgrim's Paradise (2015), Caesar released his debut studio album, Freudian, in 2017, which received three Grammy Award nominations, winning for the collaboration with American singer H.E.R. "Best Part". In 2019 he released his second studio album, Case Study 01, longlisted for the 2020 Polaris Music Prize.
	In 2021 Caesar featured alongside Giveon on Justin Bieber's single "Peaches", his first number-one song on the US Billboard Hot 100, and receiving four nominations at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. In 2023 Caesar published his third studio album, Never Enough through Republic Records, winning his second Juno Award. In 2025, Caesar released his fourth studio album Son of Spergy, which became his third top-ten album on the Billboard Canadian Albums and first on the Billboard 200.
	Through his career, Caesar has collaborated with several artists, including Brandy, Kali Uchis, Ty Dolla Sign, Summer Walker, Common, Omar Apollo, Bon Iver, and has written songs for Mary J. Blige, SZA, Tyler, the Creator, Shawn Mendes and Kanye West. He was also awarded with a total of four Juno Awards, two Soul Train Music Awards, a MTV Video Music Awards and an ASCAP Awards.
	Ashton Dumar Norwill Simmonds was born on April 5, 1995, in the Scarborough district of Toronto, Ontario, and raised in Oshawa. He is the second eldest of four children to his mother Hollace Burnett-Simmonds and father Norwill Simmonds, a gospel singer who released his first album as a high school student in Jamaica. Caesar attended the Seventh-day Adventist Church and private school in Oshawa. He is of Bajan and Jamaican descent. Caesar grew up in church, singing before his father's congregation in Oshawa. He was raised listening to soul and gospel delivered through musicality and religion, even though his parents were cautious of temptations that came with music. Caesar longed for the city, which was a one-hour drive from his home.
	At the age of 17, Caesar was kicked out of the house after a fight with his father on the weekend of his high school graduation; he was briefly homeless during this time. He felt no choice but to pursue his calling as a musician. After leaving his home, he began doing gigs. He connected with producers and future collaborators Jordan Evans and Matthew Burnett and began writing and recording what would be his debut EP Praise Break in 2014; it was No. 19 on the "20 Best R&B Albums of 2014" by Rolling Stone and the top projects of 2014 by Noisey Canada.
	Caesar's career gained notability in 2015, with the release of his second EP, Pilgrim's Paradise. The album received positive critical acclaim and, while not immediately a commercial success, "Streetcar", the cover of Kanye West's 2008 song "Street Lights", became a fan favorite.
	On August 25, 2017, Caesar released his debut album Freudian, which includes the singles "Get You", "We Find Love", and "Blessed". The album featured artists like Kali Uchis, H.E.R., Syd, and Charlotte Day Wilson. It also included uncredited vocals from the Cadaro Tribe. The album was a shortlisted finalist for the 2018 Polaris Music Prize. At the 60th Annual Grammy Awards, Caesar received two nominations for Best R&B Album and Best R&B Performance for "Get You". At the 61st Annual Grammy Awards, Caesar won Best R&B Performance for his single "Best Part".
	In March 2019, Caesar received backlash for defending his friend Julieanna Goddard via an Instagram live stream. Goddard had been criticized for her racist comments on Black people, particularly those regarding Black women. He later apologized for his comments.
	Caesar released his sophomore studio album, Case Study 01 on June 28, 2019. The album featured guest appearances from Brandy, Pharrell Williams, John Mayer, Sean Leon and Jacob Collier. The record was supported by the single, "Love Again" with Brandy which received a nomination for Best R&B Performance at the 62nd Grammy Awards.
	On March 19, 2021, Caesar appeared alongside Giveon on Justin Bieber's "Peaches" from Justice. The track marked Caesar's first to top both the Canadian Hot 100 and the Billboard Hot 100. It was later certified 6× platinum by Music Canada and 4× platinum by the RIAA. Alongside its commercial success, the track garnered four nominations at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards.
	Caesar released his third studio album, Never Enough, through Republic Records on April 7, 2023. In October 2024, he appeared on Tyler, the Creator's eighth studio album Chromakopia, providing vocals for five tracks on the album, including opening track "St. Chroma" and "Tomorrow", which Caesar co-wrote and performed bass on. At the Juno Awards of 2024, Caesar received five nominations, winning for Contemporary R&B/Soul Recording of the Year.
	On Valentine's Day, Caesar collaborated with Rex Orange County, creating a two-track release titled “Rearrange My World / There's a Field (That's Only Yours)”. In mid-July, Caesar announced a new album titled Son of Spergy, which was released on October 24, 2025. In an interview with Clash music magazine, Caesar said that the album was born from the spirit of reconciliation with his parents, and that "Spergy" is his father's nickname. In the album, he confronts masculinity, faith, and the sense of self-importance. The album features collaborations with Sampha, Bon Iver, Yebba, Blood Orange, up-and-coming artist 646yf4t, and his father Norwill Simmonds, who is a gospel singer. NME magazine also notes the strong gospel influence in the album and the presence of recordings of muffled chatter, which reflect Caesar's family.
	Caesar's stage name derives from a combination of the Roman dictator Julius Caesar and the biblical figure Daniel, showing recognition to the topics he explores through his music. His music draws from his childhood experiences and integrates them with R&B and electronics, while his lyrics explore subjects of religion, philosophy and unrequited love. In his music, he often references concepts of philosophy. Caesar heavily influenced by soul and gospel, his singing voice reshapes itself on each track, often veering into a hushed, introspective lilting style. According to Caesar, "In my religious surroundings growing up, the point is to be still, to direct as little attention to yourself as possible and instead, direct all attention to what you’re saying. Now, it’s kind of the opposite." Caesar cites Frank Ocean, D’Angelo, Kanye West, Beyoncé, Stevie Wonder, and The Doors frontman Jim Morrison as musical and stylistic inspirations.
	Caesar works in close collaboration with producers Matthew Burnett and Jordan Evans, with whom he co-founded his independent label, Golden Child Recordings, and has co-produced almost all of his music with since 2015. Caesar is also part of an informal collaborative of Toronto-based musicians and songwriters that includes River Tiber, BadBadNotGood, and Charlotte Day Wilson, among others.