	Yasmeen (born Yasmeen Sulieman on May 19, 1982 in Oakland, California) is a female R&B/dance singer. from the 2000s.
	She lived in Oakland, California until the age of 7 when she moved to Oahu, Hawaii with her parents and brother, Sterling (who is an actor). She started singing at a young age and was inspired to follow her muse by a close cousin. Her father, Jameel (who is a doctor) played drums in several bands during his college years.
	Yasmeen joined several local choirs and when she was 11 years old, she began performing in community & musical theater. During high school, she won a statewide talent competition called “Brown Bags” where she sang a cover version of Celine Dion’s song, “Love Is On the Way” which in turn resulted in an independent single release in 1999.
	Following a break from the release of her independent single, Yasmeen signed a record deal with Magic Johnson’s record label, Magic Johnson Music/MCA Records. After that, she began working on her debut album for two years with producers & songwriters such as Diane Warren, Derek Bramble, Novel and Jazze Pha.
	In 2002, Yasmeen released her debut single, “Blue Jeans” which peaked at #97 on the Billboard Hot 100, #22 on Billboard’s Rhythmic Top 40 chart and #53 on Billboard’s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, staying on the chart for 17 weeks.
	A remix of the song featuring Wu-Tang Clan member Ghostface Killah was released and gained some airplay on the radio. Alongside the “Blue Jeans” single, she performed a rendition of “The Star-Spangled Banner” at a WNBA Los Angeles Sparks basketball game to cheering applause.
	In September of 2002, Yasmeen released her debut album, “When Will It Be Me” in Japan. Due to record label issues, the album was not released in the United States due to issues with her record label.
	In early 2005, she appeared on an in-show music competition on the UPN network sitcom, “Half & Half” called “The Half & Half FastTrak” as one of five finalists selected by music producers Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis.
	Although Yasmeen didn’t win the competition, she earned the role of Chiffon in the touring musical, “Little House of Horrors” later that year. In August of 2006, she starred on the Discovery Kids children’s TV program, “Hi-Five” after cast member Karla Cheatham Mosley announced she was leaving to pursue other interests. In 2009, she signed a record deal with Strictly Rhythm/Defected Records where she released dance music singles with various DJs such as “Ready or Not,” “Gone” and “Rise.” In 2012, she joined Erik Machado (also known as Alias Rhythm) as a duo called Rose Rogue where they released an EP called “Steady.”
	In 2014, Yasmeen joined the cast of the Broadway musical, “Beautiful: The Carole King Musical” as part of the ensemble and was featured on the cast recording which won a Grammy Award the following year. In February of 2017, she released a single with Sonny Fodera called “Caught Up.” In 2020, she starred in  “A Killer Party: A Murdery Mystery Musical” (a digital-remotely performed musical that was created during the COVID-19 pandemic) as part of the ensemble.