Aaliyah Dana Haughton ( / ɑː ˈ l iː ə / ⓘ ah- LEE -ə; January 16, 1979 – August 25, 2001) was an American singer, actress, dancer, and model. Known as the "Princess of R&B" and "Queen of Urban Pop", she is credited with helping to redefine contemporary R&B, pop, and hip hop. Her accolades include three American Music Awards and two MTV VMAs, along with five Grammy Award nominations. She was of African-American, Jamaican, and Native American descent. Her name is the feminine form of the Arabic "Ali", meaning "highest, most exalted one, the best." She was fond of her name, calling it "beautiful" and saying she was "very proud of it" and strove to live up to her name every day.
	She was born in Brooklyn and moved to Detroit at age 5. She attended a Catholic school, Gesu Elementary, where in first grade she was cast in the stage play Annie, which inspired her to become an entertainer. Her uncle Barry Hankerson was an entertainment lawyer who had been married to Gladys Knight. As a child, she traveled with Knight and worked with an agent in New York City to audition for commercials and television programs, including Family Matters. After failing to land a role on the show, she continued her acting through the Gesu Players.
	Aaliyah first gained recognition at the age of 10, when she appeared on the television show Star Search, performing "My Funny Valentine." At age 11, she performed in concert alongside Gladys Knight. At the age of 12, she signed with Jive Records and her uncle Barry Hankerson's Blackground Records. Hankerson introduced her to R. Kelly, who became her mentor, as well as lead songwriter and producer of her debut album, Age Ain't Nothing but a Number (1994). The album sold three million copies in the US and was certified double Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Her first single, "Back & Forth", rose to number five on the Billboard Hot 100. After allegations of an illegal marriage with Kelly, she ended her contract with Jive and signed with Atlantic Records.
	
	She released "The Thing I Like" as part of the soundtrack to the 1994 film A Low Down Dirty Shame. In August 1995, she was featured on the single remix to Junior M.A.F.I.A.'s song "I Need You Tonight." In February 1996, Aaliyah was featured on the Kris Kross single "Live and Die for Hip Hop", which also featured Jermaine Dupri (the song's producer) and rapper Da Brat. 
	Aaliyah worked with record producers Timbaland and Missy Elliott for her second album, One in a Million (1996), which sold three million copies in the US and more than eight million copies worldwide. The year after her album was released, she was featured on Timbaland & Magoo's debut single, "Up Jumps da Boogie". 
	In 1997, Aaliyah graduated from high school. During Aaliyah's audition for acceptance to the Detroit High School for the Fine and Performing Arts, she sang "Ave Maria" in Latin. She held a 4.0 grade-point average when graduating from high school, stating that "I wanted to keep that 4.0. Being in the industry, you know, I don't want kids to think,'I can just sing and forget about school.' I think it's very important to have an education, and even more important to have something to fall back on." She considered a future career teaching music, music history or drama if she did not make a living as a recording artist because "when you pick a career it has to be something you love." She majored in drama.
	The same year, she began her acting career, playing herself in the police drama television series New York Undercover. During this time, she participated in the Children's Benefit Concert, a charity concert at the Beacon Theatre in New York. She also became the spokesperson for the Tommy Hilfiger Corporation. During her campaign with Tommy Hilfiger, the company sold over 2,400 pairs of the red, white and blue baggy jeans she wore in their advertisements. 
	In December 1997, she performed the Christmas carol "What Child Is This?" at the annual Christmas in Washington television special. She also contributed to the soundtrack album for the animated film Anastasia, performing a cover version of "Journey to the Past" that earned songwriters Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song. She performed the song at the 70th Academy Awards, becoming the youngest singer to perform at the event. Also in 1998, she released the song "Are You That Somebody?", which was featured on the Dr. Dolittle soundtrack. The song peaked at number 21 on the Billboard Hot 100 and earned her her first Grammy Award nomination. 
	In 1999, Aaliyah landed her first big-screen acting role in Romeo Must Die. She starred opposite martial artist Jet Li, playing a couple who fall in love amid their warring families. Released on March 24, 2000, the movie grossed US $18.6 million in its first weekend, ranking number two at the box office. Its soundtrack was supported by her single "Try Again", the first song to top the Billboard Hot 100 solely through airplay. The music video won the Best Female Video and Best Video from a Film awards at the 2000 MTV Video Music Awards. It also earned her a Grammy Award nomination for Best Female R&B Vocalist. The soundtrack went on to sell 1.5 million copies in the United States.
	After completing Romeo Must Die, Aaliyah began to work on her second film, Queen of the Damned. She played the role of an ancient vampire, Queen Akasha, which she described as a "manipulative, crazy, sexual being". Filming both Romeo Must Die and Queen of the Damned delayed the release of her next album. She had not intended for her albums to have such a gap between them: "I wanted to take a break after One in a Million to just relax, think about how I wanted to approach the next album. Then, when I was ready to start back up, Romeo happened, and so I had to take another break and do that film and then do the soundtrack, then promote it. The break turned into a longer break than I anticipated." 
	She filmed Queen of the Damned and recorded her third album at the same time, so that the album could be released in 2001. She enjoyed balancing her singing and acting careers. Though she called music a "first" for her, she also had been acting since she was young and had wanted to begin acting "at some point in my career", but "wanted it to be the right time and the right vehicle" and felt Romeo Must Die "was it". Connie Johnson of the Los Angeles Times argued that Aaliyah's focus on her film career may have caused her to not give the album "the attention it merited." 
	The self-titled Aaliyah was released in 2001, which topped the Billboard 200. The album spawned the singles "We Need a Resolution", "Rock the Boat", and "More Than a Woman".
	On August 25, 2001, at the age of 22, Aaliyah was killed in a plane crash along with eight other people on board, when the overloaded aircraft she was traveling in crashed shortly after takeoff. The pilot was later found to have traces of cocaine and alcohol in his body and was not qualified to fly the aircraft designated for the flight. Her family filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the aircraft's operator, which was settled out of court. After her death, her music has continued to achieve commercial success, aided by several posthumous releases, including the compilation albums I Care 4 U (2002) and Ultimate Aaliyah (2005). She has sold 8.1 million albums in the US and an estimated 24 to 32 million albums worldwide.
	Aaliyah was slated to appear in several future films, including a romantic film titled Some Kind of Blue and a Whitney Houston-produced remake of the 1976 film Sparkle. Houston recalled Aaliyah being "so enthusiastic" about the film; the project was shelved after she died. Before her death, Aaliyah filmed some scenes for the sequels of The Matrix as the character Zee. A portion of her role in The Matrix Reloaded was filmed; these unused scenes were included in the tribute section of the Matrix Ultimate Collection series. 